Home router : 

	Typically has an "inside" and an "outside". 
	The outside is the Internet connection, which connects to a port on the router which is often called the WAN (Wide Area Network) port.
	The inside is the local network or LAN (Local Area Network). A router often has multiple ports that belong to the inside where you can connect
	different devices.


Routing :

	A router directs data traffic to its destination. 
	The internet is more or less just routers interconnected with each others. 
	ISPs operate their own set of routers. ISPs thus need to cooperate and allow their routers to communicate with each other.
	Computers use IP (Internet Protocol) addresses to communicate.


IP addresses : 

	IP addresses consist of two main parts : IP network, and addresses within the IP network (or host addresses).
	In total there are 4 parts, each being a value between 0-255.
	To communicate, devices connected to the same local network need IP addresses belonging to the same IP network.
	Computers belonging to different networks communicate via routers.
	Subnet masks determine which part of the IP address indicates the network it belongs to.
	A subnet mask consists of 4 values between 0-255.
	In its simplest form, the part where the subnet mask value is 255 belongs the the network address and the part where the value is 0 belongs to the host 
	address.
	The network address is the first (lowest numbered) address on the IP network.


Default Gateway :

	A Default Gateway is a router that can connect to more than one IP network and can route traffic between those IP networks.
	The router will have its own IP address on each IP network that it connects to.
	When the router hands out an IP address and a Subnet Mask to the computer it also sends out its own IP address to the computer and tells the computer
	to use that address as its Default Gateway.
	By sending the traffic to the default gateway the computer is delegating responsibility for forwarding the traffic to the router.


Domaine Name System : 

	The translation between domaine names and IP addresses is handled by the DNS.
	DNS is served by a large number of servers on the Internet which can reply to queries about domain names.
	When the computer gets its IP address from the home router, then the router also passes along information about which DNS server  the computer
	should use.


Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol : 

	A protocol used by home routers to automatically hand out configuration to computers and other devices on the network.
	When your router sees a DHCP request, it will hand out an available IP address from its pool of free IP addresses, together with the other details
	that the computer needs (subnet mask, Default Gateway, DNS).


Public and private addresses :

	All IP addresses in use must be unique and must not be used anywhere else on the Internet.
	Exception : all IP addresses beginning with “192.168”, "10" or "172.16" to "172.31" which belong to a special category of IP addresses
	that are commonly called Private IP addresses.
	They are reserved for local use within LAN networks, and can thus be reused in many places.
	To avoid conflicts arising from this, Network Address Translation is used.


Subnetwork :
	A Subnet is a logical division of an IP network.
	For example, 198.51.100.0/24 is the prefix of the Internet Protocol version 4 network starting at the given address, having 24 bits allocated
	for the network prefix, and the remaining 8 bits reserved for host addressing.
	Addresses in the range 198.51.100.0 to 198.51.100.255 belong to this network.
	For IPv4, a network may also be characterized by its subnet mask or netmask, which is the bitmask that when applied by a bitwise AND operation
	to any IP address in the network, yields the routing prefix.
	For example, 255.255.255.0 is the subnet mask for the prefix 198.51.100.0/24.


Network Address Translation :

	The number of IP addresses available is around 4 billion. Each person uses multiple public IP addresses.
	The solution to this problem is the Private IP address space that can be reused over and over without limitation.
	But these private IP addresses cannot be used on the internet, to avoid conflicts.
	The solution to that problem is to let many private IP addresses share one single public IP address. This is where NAT comes in play.
	When a computer wants to communicate it sends off a packet with data. The packet always has two IP addresses inscribed in the envelope
	or header of the packet : 
		Source address : the IP address of the sender.
		Destination address : the IP address of the receiver.
	When data is sent from the home network to the internet, the home router translates the private IP into its public IP address, letting all
	clients on the LAN share this public IP address.
	If several clients are operating at the same time on the LAN, the home router will keep track of what traffic belongs to which computer.
	It is able to do so by using Ports.


UDP and TCP :

	UDP = User Datagram Protocol
	TCP = Transmission Control Protocol
	Different programs and services have very different requirements regarding how they prefer that traffic should be sent over the network.
	To some programs, it is extremely important that not a single data packet is lost, and that no packets are received in the wrong order.
	Other programs might not care if some errors or packet losses occur. Instead, they might prefer that the traffic is just simply being sent
	as quickly as possible.
	TCP and UDP are Transport Protocols that govern how traffic is sent over the network.
	A protocol is a compilation of information regarding decisions on how something should be performed.
	TCP is absolutely packed with functions that make sure that traffic will arrive in the correct order, that no packets are lost, that any lost packets
	are automatically sent again, and so on.
	UDP, on the other hand, is designed with speed in mind. It has very few safeguards and it doesn’t care if packets are lost or arrive in the wrong order.
	Each UDP or TCP message has a destination port, but also a source port. The source port can be used by routers and firewalls in the network to distinguish
	between different communication flows or sessions since each session will have a different random source port associated with it.
	The source ports are randomised by the computer, which means that each session thus will have a unique combination of IP addresses and ports
	that the router can remember and associate with each ongoing traffic session.



Ports :

	Used to give addresses to different services.
	A service is usually a program that is constantly running in the background on the computer.
	Each program that wants to be able to receive network connections and data packets will require its own unique port.
	The programs and services that you start on a computer will tell the OS which ports that the service would like to listen to.
	The OS will then start listening for traffic to that port, and if any such traffic arrives at the computer then the OS will forward that traffic to
	the correct program.
	There are Internet standards. A web server for example almost always listens for traffic on port 80, and a secure Web Server listens on port 443.
	For a DNS server it's 53/UDP.
	Since applications always listen to a specific Port but also a specific Transport Protocol (UDP or TCP), then you always have to know not just which port
	is used, but also which Transport Protocol the program uses.


MAC Addresses :

	A MAC address consists of 12 hexadecimal characters.
	When a computer sends out network traffic the traffic has both a source and destination IP address, but it also has a source and destination MAC address.
	MAC addresses hold information about the next hop destination in the local LAN network.
	FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF is the broadcast MAC address.
	All other equipment on the LAN will then understand that the traffic is a broadcast that is directed at everybody else within the LAN.


Address Resolution Protocol :

	ARP is used to associate MAC addresses with IP addresses and is a way for a computer to look up an unknown MAC address for a device that it wants
	fo communicate with.
	ARP requests are always sent as broadcasts because we don’t know what MAC address we mant to send the message to.
	Every time a computer receives an ARP reply it will save the response for at least a few minutes in an ARP table.


The Open Systems Interconnection model :

	OSI is a conceptual model that standrdises the communication functions of a computing system. 
	Its goal is interoperability.
	Developped in the late 70s, failed to garner reliance by the software architects in the design of the early Internet.
	It partitions the flow of data into 7 abstraction layers.
	Within each layer, one or more entities implement its functionality. 
	Each entity interacted directly only with the layer immediately beneath it and provided facilities for use by the layer above it.

	Layer 1 : Physical
		Transmission and reception of raw bit streams over a physical medium

	Layer 2 : Data link
		Reliable transmission of data frames between two nodes connected by a physical layer

	Layer 3 : Network
		Structuring and managing a multi-node network, including addressing, routing and traffic control

	Layer 4 : Transport
		Reliable transmission of data segments between points on a network, including segmentation, acknowledgement and multiplexing

	Layer 5 : Session
		Managing communication sessions, i.e., continuous exchange of information in the form of multiple back-and-forth transmissions between two nodes

	Layer 6 : Presentation
		Translation of data between a networking service and an application; including character encoding, data compression and encryption/decryption

	Layer 7 : Application
		High-level APIs, including resource sharing, remote file access


The Internet Protocol : 

	Commomly known as TCP/IP because the foundational protocols in the suite are TCP and IP.
	Specifies specifying how data should be packetized, addressed, transmitted, routed, and received.
	Its functionnalities are organized into 4 abstraction layers.

	Layer 1 : Link layer
		Contains communication methods for data that remains within a single network segment (link).

	Layer 2 : Internet layer 
		Provides internetworking between independent networks

	Layer 3 : Transport layer
		Handles host-to-host commnication.

	Layer 4 : Application layer
		Provides process-to-process data exchange for applications.






